[DX-1691] Dashboard Release Notes 5.3.6 (#5479)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: tyk-docs/content/product-stack/tyk-dashboard/release-notes/version-5.3.md

With PostgreSQL v11 reaching [EOL](https://www.postgresql.org/support/versioning/) in November 2023, we can no longer guarantee full compatibility with this version of the database. If you are [using PostgreSQL]({{< ref "planning-for-production/database-settings/postgresql" >}}) we recommend that you upgrade to a version that we have tested with, as indicated [below](#3rdPartyTools-v5.3.3).

#### Compatibility Matrix For Tyk Components
<!-- Required. Version compatibility with other components in the Tyk stack. This takes the form of a compatibility matrix and is only required for Gateway and Portal.
An illustrative example is shown below. -->
| Dashboard Version | Recommended Releases | Backwards Compatibility |
|----    |---- |---- |
| 5.3.6 | MDCB v2.5.1     | MDCB v2.5.1 |
|         | Operator v0.17 | Operator v0.16 |
|         | Sync v1.4.3   | Sync v1.4.3 |

> |         | Helm Chart (tyk-stack, tyk-oss, tyk-dashboard, tyk-gateway) v1.4.0 | Helm all versions |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|         | Helm Chart (tyk-stack, tyk-oss, tyk-dashboard, tyk-gateway) v2.0.0 | Helm all versions |
```

---

## 5.3.6 Release Notes

### Release Date xxx

### Breaking Changes
**Attention**: Please read this section carefully.
There are no breaking changes in this release, however, if moving from a version of Tyk older than 5.3.0 please read the explanation provided with [5.3.0 release]({{< ref "#TykOAS-v5.3.0">}}).

### Deprecations
There are no deprecations in this release.

### Upgrade Instructions

> If you are using 5.3.0 we advise you to upgrade ASAP and if you are on an older version you should first [upgrade to 5.3.0](#upgrade-5.3.0) and then upgrade directly to this release. Go to the [Upgrading Tyk](#upgrading-tyk) section for detailed upgrade instructions.

Reviewer 2: I've done this.

---

## 5.3.6 Release Notes

### Release Date xxx

### Breaking Changes
**Attention**: Please read this section carefully.
There are no breaking changes in this release, however, if moving from a version of Tyk older than 5.3.0 please read the explanation provided with [5.3.0 release]({{< ref "#TykOAS-v5.3.0">}}).

### Deprecations
There are no deprecations in this release.

### Upgrade Instructions
If you are using 5.3.0 we advise you to upgrade ASAP and if you are on an older version you should first [upgrade to 5.3.0](#upgrade-5.3.0) and then upgrade directly to this release. Go to the [Upgrading Tyk](#upgrading-tyk) section for detailed upgrade instructions.

### Release Highlights

This release primarily focuses on bug fixes. For a comprehensive list of changes, please refer to the detailed [changelog]({{< ref "#Changelog-v5.3.6">}}) below.

> ### Dependencies {#dependencies-5.3.0}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Dependencies {#dependencies-5.3.6}
```

<!--Required. Use this section to announce the following types of dependencies compatible with the release:
Version compatibility with other components in the Tyk stack. This takes the form of a compatibility matrix and is only required for Gateway and Portal.
3rd party dependencies and tools -->

> With MongoDB 4.4 reaching [EOL](https://www.mongodb.com/legal/support-policy/lifecycles) in February 2024, we can no longer guarantee full compatibility with this version of the database. If you are [using MongoDB]({{< ref "planning-for-production/database-settings/mongodb" >}}) we recommend that you upgrade to a version that we have tested with, as indicated [below](#3rdPartyTools-v5.3.3).
> 
> 
> With PostgreSQL v11 reaching [EOL](https://www.postgresql.org/support/versioning/) in November 2023, we can no longer guarantee full compatibility with this version of the database. If you are [using PostgreSQL]({{< ref "planning-for-production/database-settings/postgresql" >}}) we recommend that you upgrade to a version that we have tested with, as indicated [below](#3rdPartyTools-v5.3.3).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With MongoDB 4.4 reaching [EOL](https://www.mongodb.com/legal/support-policy/lifecycles) in February 2024, we can no longer guarantee full compatibility with this version of the database. If you are [using MongoDB]({{< ref "planning-for-production/database-settings/mongodb" >}}) we recommend that you upgrade to a version that we have tested with, as indicated [below](#3rdPartyTools-v5.3.6).

With PostgreSQL v11 reaching [EOL](https://www.postgresql.org/support/versioning/) in November 2023, we can no longer guarantee full compatibility with this version of the database. If you are [using PostgreSQL]({{< ref "planning-for-production/database-settings/postgresql" >}}) we recommend that you upgrade to a version that we have tested with, as indicated [below](#3rdPartyTools-v5.3.6).
```

| | EDP v1.8.3 | EDP all versions |
| | Pump v1.9.0 | Pump all versions |
| | TIB (if using standalone) v1.5.1 | TIB all versions |

#### 3rd Party Dependencies & Tools {#3rdPartyTools-v5.3.6}
<!-- Required. Third-party dependencies encompass tools (GoLang, Helm etc.), databases (PostgreSQL, MongoDB etc.) and external software libraries. This section should be a table that presents the third-party dependencies and tools compatible with the release. Compatible is used in the sense of those versions tested with the releases. Such information assists customers considering upgrading to a specific release.
Additionally, a disclaimer statement was added below the table, for customers to check that the third-party dependency they decide to install remains in support.
An example is given below for illustrative purposes only. Tested Versions and Compatible Versions information will require discussion with relevant squads and QA. -->

| Third Party Dependency                                     | Tested Versions        | Compatible Versions    | Comments |
| ---------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------- | ---------------------- | -------- |

> | [GoLang](https://go.dev/dl/)                               | 1.21       | 1.21       | [Go plugins]({{< ref "plugins/supported-languages/golang" >}}) must be built using Go 1.21 |

Reviewer 2: Yes

| [Redis](https://redis.io/download/)  | 6.2.x, 7.x  | 6.2.x, 7.x  | Used by Tyk Dashboard |
| [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/try/download/community)  | 5.0.x, 6.0.x, 7.0.x  | 5.0.x, 6.0.x, 7.0.x  | Used by Tyk Dashboard |
| [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/download/)         | 12.x - 16.x LTS        | 12.x - 16.x            | Used by Tyk Dashboard |
| [OpenAPI Specification](https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.0.3) | v3.0.x      | v3.0.x          | Supported by [Tyk OAS]({{< ref "tyk-apis/tyk-gateway-api/oas/x-tyk-oas-doc" >}})|

### Downloads
- [Docker Image to pull](https://hub.docker.com/r/tykio/tyk-dashboard/tags?page=&page_size=&ordering=&name=v5.3.6)
 - ```bash
   docker pull tykio/tyk-dashboard:v5.3.6
   ```
- Helm charts

>  - [tyk-charts v1.4]({{< ref "product-stack/tyk-charts/release-notes/version-1.4.md" >}})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - [tyk-charts v2.0]({{< ref "product-stack/tyk-charts/release-notes/version-2.0.md" >}})
```

>  - [tyk-charts v1.4]({{< ref "product-stack/tyk-charts/release-notes/version-1.4.md" >}})

Reviewer: yes, the download link should follow previous minor version which has updated to 2.0 already.

Each change log item should be expandable. The first line summarises the changelog entry. It should be then possible to expand this to reveal further details about the changelog item. This is achieved using HTML as shown in the example below. -->
<ul>
<li>
<details>
<summary>Upgrade to Go 1.22 for Tyk Dashboard</summary>
The Tyk Dashboard has been upgraded from Golang 1.21 to Golang 1.22, bringing enhanced performance, strengthened security, and access to the latest features available in the new Golang release.
</details>
</li>
</ul>

#### Fixed
<!-- This section should be a bullet point list of new features. Explain:

- The purpose of the new feature
- How does the new feature benefit users?
- Link to documentation of the new feature
- For OSS - Link to the corresponding issue if possible on GitHub to allow the users to see further info.

Each change log item should be expandable. The first line summarises the changelog entry. It should be then possible to expand this to reveal further details about the changelog item. This is achieved using HTML as shown in the example below. -->
<ul>
<li>
<details>

> <summary>Gateway Secret Exposed in Logs When Accessing /api/keys

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<summary>Gateway Secret Exposed in Logs During Access to `/api/keys` Endpoint
```

</summary>

> Resolved an issue where the Gateway secret was inadvertently logged by the Dashboard in debug mode. This issue has been fixed to prevent sensitive information from appearing in system logs, especially in non-production environments.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Resolved an issue where the Gateway secret was inadvertently logged by the Dashboard in debug mode. This issue has been fixed to prevent sensitive information from appearing in system logs.
```

</details>
</li>
<li>
<details>

> <summary>Tyk Dashboard Keys Page No Longer Blank with 10+ Policies

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<summary>Tyk Dashboard Keys Page Now Displays Correctly with More Than 10 Policies
```

</summary>

> We have resolved an issue in the Tyk Dashboard where the Keys page would display a blank screen if a key was associated with more than 10 policies. The UI has been fixed to properly display the page, regardless of the number of policies attached to a key, ensuring better usability and management in the Dashboard.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We have resolved an issue in the Tyk Dashboard where the Keys page would display a blank screen if a key was associated with more than 10 policies. The UI has been fixed to properly display the page, regardless of the number of policies attached to a key.
```

</details>
</li>

<li>
<details>
<summary>Prevented Multiple Versions of the Same Tyk Classic API from Being Attached to a Policy</summary>

> We have fixed an issue in the Dashboard UI where users were able to attach multiple versions of the same Tyk Classic API to a policy. The UI now correctly prevents the addition of duplicate API versions to a single policy, ensuring accurate and streamlined policy management.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We have fixed an issue in the Dashboard UI where users were able to attach multiple versions of the same Tyk Classic API to a policy. The UI now correctly prevents the addition of duplicate API versions to a single policy.
```

<details>
<summary>Corrected JWT Scope to Policy Mapping in Dashboard
</summary>

We have fixed an issue in the Dashboard UI where the scope name was incorrectly recorded instead of the policy ID for the second and subsequent JWT scope mappings. The UI now correctly associates the defined scope with the appropriate policy, ensuring accurate JWT scope to policy mappings.
</details>
</li>

</ul>

#### Security Fixes
<!-- This section should be a bullet point list that should be included when any security fixes have been made in the release, e.g. CVEs. For CVE fixes, consideration needs to be made as follows:
1. Dependency-tracked CVEs - External-tracked CVEs should be included on the release note.
2. Internal scanned CVEs - Refer to the relevant engineering and delivery policy.
For agreed CVE security fixes, provide a link to the corresponding entry on the NIST website. For example:
- Fixed the following CVEs:
    - [CVE-2022-33082](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2022-33082)
-->
<ul>
<li>
<details>
<summary>High priority CVEs fixed</summary>
Fixed the following high-priority CVEs identified in the Tyk Dashboard, providing increased protection against security vulnerabilities:

> - [CVE-2024-6104](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-6104)

Reviewer 3: This link is not rendered in the preview.

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/588c8aa9-7ec9-4012-9866-ce7d15d4461e)

</details>
</li>

<li>
<details>
<summary>Strengthened ResetPassword Permission Behavior
</summary>

> We have fixed a privilege escalation vulnerability where a user with certain permissions could potentially reset other users' passwords, including admin accounts. The following changes have been made to tighten the behavior of the ResetPassword permission within the Dashboard's Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) system:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We have fixed a privilege escalation vulnerability where a user with certain permissions could reset other users' passwords, including admin accounts. The following changes have been made to tighten the behavior of the ResetPassword permission within the Dashboard's Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) system:
```

- Only super-admins or admins can assign admin status to a user, and this cannot be assigned to user groups.
- All users can reset their own passwords, but resetting other users' passwords now requires a specific ResetPassword permission.
- The scope of the ResetPassword permission is limited to the Tyk Organization (OrgId) for which the user is an admin.

> - The ResetPassword permission can only be assigned by super-admins, directly to admin users (not user groups).

Reviewer 3: Isn't this the same as the first one? We can remove this I guess. But I like this sentence over the 1st one.
